docs/docfiles/user_guides/QuickStart.rst, before:

.. _quick_start_guide:

#################
Quick Start Guide
#################


.. contents:: Table of contents
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 3

Installing from oneAPI
----------------------

Dpctl is available as part of the oneAPI Intel Distribution of Python (IDP).
Please follow `oneAPI installation guide`_ to install oneAPI. In this guide it
is assumed oneAPI is installed in the standard location and the environment
variable ``ONEAPI_ROOT`` points to the following installation root directory:

    - Windows: ``C:\Program Files (x86)\Intel\oneAPI\``
    - Linux: ``/opt/intel/oneapi``

Once oneAPI is installed, dpctl is ready to be used by setting up the IDP that
is available inside oneAPI. IDP can be set up as follows:

On Linux

.. code-block:: bash

  source ${ONEAPI_ROOT}/intelpython/latest/env/vars.sh
  python -c "import dpctl; dpctl.lsplatform()"

On Windows

.. code-block:: bat

    call "%ONEAPI_ROOT%\intelpython\latest\env\vars.bat"
    python -c "import dpctl; dpctl.lsplatform()"


.. note::

    The ``dpctl.lsplatform()`` function is new in dpctl 0.7 and will be
    available in oneAPI 2021.3. If you are following the guide on an older
    oneAPI installation, use ``dpctl.dump()``. If no GPU platforms are shown,
    make source your system has a GPU and has the necessary GPU drivers. You can
    install GPU drivers by following the `GPU driver installation guide`_.

Install Wheel package from Pypi
-------------------------------

1. Install dpctl

.. code-block:: bash

    python -m pip install --index-url https://pypi.anaconda.org/intel/simple -extra-index-url https://pypi.org/simple dpctl

.. note::

    Dpctl wheel package is placed on Pypi, but some of its dependencies
    (like Intel numpy) are available only in Anaconda Cloud. That is why install
    command requires additional Intel Pypi channel from Anaconda Cloud.

2. Set path to Performance Libraries in case of using ``venv`` or system Python.


On Linux

.. code-block:: bash

    export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=<path_to_your_env>/lib

On Windows

.. code-block:: bat

    set PATH=<path_to_your_env>\bin;<path_to_your_env>\Library\bin;%PATH%

Building from source
--------------------

To build dpctl from source, we need dpcpp and GPU drivers (and optionally CPU
OpenCL drivers). It is preferable to use the dpcpp compiler packaged as part of
oneAPI. However, it is possible to use a custom build of dpcpp and use that to
build dpctl, especially if you want to enable CUDA support.

Building using oneAPI dpcpp
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

As before, oneAPI and graphics drivers should be installed on the system prior
to proceeding further.

**Activate oneAPI as follows**

On Linux

.. code-block:: bash

  source ${ONEAPI_ROOT}/setvars.sh

On Windows

.. code-block:: bat

    call "%ONEAPI_ROOT%\setvars.bat"

**Build and install using conda-build**

The conda-recipe included with the sources can be used to build the dpctl
package. The advantage of this approach is that all dependencies are pulled in
from oneAPI's intelpython conda channel that was installed as part of oneAPI.

.. code-block:: bash

    export ONEAPI_ROOT=/opt/intel/oneapi
    conda build conda-recipe -c ${ONEAPI_ROOT}/conda_channel

On Windows to cope with `long file names <https://github.com/IntelPython/dpctl/issues/15>`_,
use ``croot`` with short folder path:

.. code-block:: bat

    set "ONEAPI_ROOT=C:\Program Files (x86)\Intel\oneAPI\"
    conda build --croot=C:/tmp conda-recipe -c "%ONEAPI_ROOT%\conda_channel"

After building the conda package you may install it by executing:

.. code-block:: bash

    conda install dpctl

.. note::

    You could face issues with conda-build version 3.20. Use conda-build
    3.18 instead.

**Build and Install with setuptools**

To build using Python ``setuptools``, the following packages should be
installed:

    - ``cython``
    - ``numpy``
    - ``cmake``
    - ``ninja`` (only on Windows)
    - ``gtest`` (optional to run C API tests)
    - ``pytest`` (optional to run Python API tests)

Once the prerequisites are installed, building using ``setuptools`` involves The
usual steps

to build and install

.. code-block:: bash

    python setup.py install

, and to develop.

.. code-block:: bash

    python setup.py develop

Building using custom dpcpp
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

It is possible to build dpctl from source using .. _DPC++ toolchain: https://github.com/intel/llvm/blob/sycl/sycl/doc/GetStartedGuide.md
instead of the DPC++ compiler that comes with oneAPI. One reason for doing this
may be to enable support for CUDA devices.

Following steps in :ref:`Build and Install with setuptools` use command line
option :code:`--sycl-compiler-prefix`, for example:

.. code-block:: bash

    python setup.py develop --sycl-compiler-prefix=${DPCPP_ROOT}/llvm/build

Available options and their descriptions can be retrieved using option
:code:`--help`.

Using dpctl
-----------

Dpctl requires a DPC++ runtime. When dpctl is installed via conda then it uses
the DPC++ runtime from ``dpcpp_cpp_rt`` package that is part of IDP. When using
``setuptools`` make sure a compatible version of DPC++ runtime is available on
the system. The easiest way to setup a DPC++ runtime will be by activating
oneAPI.

Running examples and tests
--------------------------

Running the examples
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

After setting up dpctl you can try out the Python examples as follows:

.. code-block:: bash

    for script in `ls examples/python/`
    do
    echo "executing ${script}"
    python examples/python/${script}
    done

The dpctl repository also provides a set of examples of building Cython
extensions with DPC++ compiler, that interoperate with dpctl. These examples are
located under *examples/cython*. Each example in the folder can be built using
``CC=clang CXX=dpcpp python setup.py build_ext --inplace``. Please refer to
``run.py`` script in respective folders to execute the Cython extension
examples.

Running the Python tests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The dpctl Python test suite can be executed as follows:

.. code-block:: bash

    pytest --pyargs dpctl


Building the C API shared library
---------------------------------

The dpctl C API is a shared library called libDPCTLSyclInterface and is built
together when build the Python package. However, it is possible to only build
the C API as a standalone library. To do so, you will need ``cmake``,
``ninja`` or ``make``, and optionally ``gtest 1.10`` if you wish to run the
C API test suite.

For example, on Linux the following script can be used to build the C oneAPI
library.

.. code-block:: bash

    #!/bin/bash
    set +xe
    rm -rf build
    mkdir build
    pushd build

    INSTALL_PREFIX=`pwd`/../install
    rm -rf ${INSTALL_PREFIX}
    export ONEAPI_ROOT=/opt/intel/oneapi
    DPCPP_ROOT=${ONEAPI_ROOT}/compiler/latest/linux

    cmake                                                       \
        -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release                              \
        -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=${INSTALL_PREFIX}                \
        -DCMAKE_PREFIX_PATH=${INSTALL_PREFIX}                   \
        -DDPCPP_INSTALL_DIR=${DPCPP_ROOT}                       \
        -DCMAKE_C_COMPILER:PATH=${DPCPP_ROOT}/bin/clang         \
        -DCMAKE_CXX_COMPILER:PATH=${DPCPP_ROOT}/bin/dpcpp       \
        -DDPCTL_ENABLE_LO_PROGRAM_CREATION=ON                   \
        -DDPCTL_BUILD_CAPI_TESTS=ON                             \
        ..

    make V=1 -n -j 4 && make check && make install





.. _oneAPI installation guide: https://software.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/articles/installation-guide-for-intel-oneapi-toolkits.html
.. _GPU driver installation guide : https://dgpu-docs.intel.com/installation-guides/index.html

Commit message:

Minor edits to the quick start guide.

docs/docfiles/user_guides/QuickStart.rst, after:

.. _quick_start_guide:

#################
Quick Start Guide
#################


.. contents:: Table of contents
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 3

Installing from oneAPI
----------------------

Dpctl is available as part of the oneAPI Intel Distribution of Python (IDP).
Please follow `oneAPI installation guide`_ to install oneAPI. In this quick
start guide, it is assumed oneAPI is installed in the standard location and the
environment variable ``ONEAPI_ROOT`` points to the following installation root
directory:

    - Windows: ``C:\Program Files (x86)\Intel\oneAPI\``
    - Linux: ``/opt/intel/oneapi``

Once oneAPI is installed, dpctl is ready to be used by setting up IDP from
the oneAPI installation. IDP can be set up as follows:

On Linux

.. code-block:: bash

  source ${ONEAPI_ROOT}/intelpython/latest/env/vars.sh
  python -c "import dpctl; dpctl.lsplatform()"

On Windows

.. code-block:: bat

    call "%ONEAPI_ROOT%\intelpython\latest\env\vars.bat"
    python -c "import dpctl; dpctl.lsplatform()"


.. note::

    The ``dpctl.lsplatform()`` function is new in dpctl 0.7 and will be
    available in oneAPI 2021.3. If you are following the guide on an older
    oneAPI installation, use ``dpctl.dump()``. If no GPU platforms are shown,
    make sure your system has a supported GPU and has the necessary GPU drivers
    installed. You can install GPU drivers by following the
    `GPU driver installation guide`_.

Install Wheel package from Pypi
-------------------------------

Dpctl can also be istalled from Pypi.

.. code-block:: bash

    python -m pip install --index-url https://pypi.anaconda.org/intel/simple -extra-index-url https://pypi.org/simple dpctl

.. note::

    The dpctl wheel package is available on Pypi, but some of the dependencies
    (like Intel numpy) are available only in Anaconda Cloud. For this reason,
    please install the extra packages needed by dpctl from the Intel channel in
    Anaconda cloud. Additionally, you will need to set the ``LD_LIBRARY_PATH``
    or ``PATH`` correctly.

On Linux

.. code-block:: bash

    export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=<path_to_your_env>/lib

On Windows

.. code-block:: bat

    set PATH=<path_to_your_env>\bin;<path_to_your_env>\Library\bin;%PATH%

Building from source
--------------------

To build dpctl from source, we need dpcpp and GPU drivers (and optionally CPU
OpenCL drivers). It is preferable to use the dpcpp compiler packaged as part of
oneAPI. However, it is possible to use a custom build of dpcpp to build dpctl,
especially if you want to enable CUDA support.

Building using oneAPI dpcpp
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

As before, oneAPI and graphics drivers should be installed on the system prior
to proceeding further.

**Activate oneAPI as follows**

On Linux

.. code-block:: bash

  source ${ONEAPI_ROOT}/setvars.sh

On Windows

.. code-block:: bat

    call "%ONEAPI_ROOT%\setvars.bat"

**Build and install using conda-build**

The conda-recipe included with the sources can be used to build the dpctl
package. The advantage of this approach is that all dependencies are pulled in
from oneAPI's intelpython conda channel that was installed as part of oneAPI.

.. code-block:: bash

    export ONEAPI_ROOT=/opt/intel/oneapi
    conda build conda-recipe -c ${ONEAPI_ROOT}/conda_channel

On Windows to cope with `long file names <https://github.com/IntelPython/dpctl/issues/15>`_,
use ``croot`` with short folder path:

.. code-block:: bat

    set "ONEAPI_ROOT=C:\Program Files (x86)\Intel\oneAPI\"
    conda build --croot=C:/tmp conda-recipe -c "%ONEAPI_ROOT%\conda_channel"

After building the conda package you may install it by executing:

.. code-block:: bash

    conda install dpctl

.. note::

    You could face issues with conda-build version 3.20. Use conda-build
    3.18 instead.

**Build and Install with setuptools**

To build using Python ``setuptools``, the following packages should be
installed:

    - ``cython``
    - ``numpy``
    - ``cmake``
    - ``ninja`` (only on Windows)
    - ``gtest`` (optional to run C API tests)
    - ``pytest`` (optional to run Python API tests)

Once the prerequisites are installed, building using ``setuptools`` involves The
usual steps

to build and install

.. code-block:: bash

    python setup.py install

, and to develop.

.. code-block:: bash

    python setup.py develop

Building using custom dpcpp
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

It is possible to build dpctl from source using .. _DPC++ toolchain: https://github.com/intel/llvm/blob/sycl/sycl/doc/GetStartedGuide.md
instead of the DPC++ compiler that comes with oneAPI. One reason for doing this
may be to enable support for CUDA devices.

Following steps in :ref:`Build and Install with setuptools` use command line
option :code:`--sycl-compiler-prefix`, for example:

.. code-block:: bash

    python setup.py develop --sycl-compiler-prefix=${DPCPP_ROOT}/llvm/build

Available options and their descriptions can be retrieved using option
:code:`--help`.

Using dpctl
-----------

Dpctl requires a DPC++ runtime. When dpctl is installed via conda then it uses
the DPC++ runtime from ``dpcpp_cpp_rt`` package that is part of IDP. When using
``setuptools`` make sure a compatible version of DPC++ runtime is available on
the system. The easiest way to setup a DPC++ runtime will be by activating
oneAPI.

Running examples and tests
--------------------------

Running the examples
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

After setting up dpctl you can try out the Python examples as follows:

.. code-block:: bash

    for script in `ls examples/python/`
    do
    echo "executing ${script}"
    python examples/python/${script}
    done

The dpctl repository also provides a set of examples of building Cython
extensions with DPC++ compiler, that interoperate with dpctl. These examples are
located under *examples/cython*. Each example in the folder can be built using
``CC=clang CXX=dpcpp python setup.py build_ext --inplace``. Please refer to
``run.py`` script in respective folders to execute the Cython extension
examples.

Running the Python tests
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The dpctl Python test suite can be executed as follows:

.. code-block:: bash

    pytest --pyargs dpctl


Building the C API shared library
---------------------------------

The dpctl C API is a shared library called libDPCTLSyclInterface and is built
together when build the Python package. However, it is possible to only build
the C API as a standalone library. To do so, you will need ``cmake``,
``ninja`` or ``make``, and optionally ``gtest 1.10`` if you wish to run the
C API test suite.

For example, on Linux the following script can be used to build the C oneAPI
library.

.. code-block:: bash

    #!/bin/bash
    set +xe
    rm -rf build
    mkdir build
    pushd build

    INSTALL_PREFIX=`pwd`/../install
    rm -rf ${INSTALL_PREFIX}
    export ONEAPI_ROOT=/opt/intel/oneapi
    DPCPP_ROOT=${ONEAPI_ROOT}/compiler/latest/linux

    cmake                                                       \
        -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release                              \
        -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=${INSTALL_PREFIX}                \
        -DCMAKE_PREFIX_PATH=${INSTALL_PREFIX}                   \
        -DDPCPP_INSTALL_DIR=${DPCPP_ROOT}                       \
        -DCMAKE_C_COMPILER:PATH=${DPCPP_ROOT}/bin/clang         \
        -DCMAKE_CXX_COMPILER:PATH=${DPCPP_ROOT}/bin/dpcpp       \
        -DDPCTL_ENABLE_LO_PROGRAM_CREATION=ON                   \
        -DDPCTL_BUILD_CAPI_TESTS=ON                             \
        ..

    make V=1 -n -j 4 && make check && make install





.. _oneAPI installation guide: https://software.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/articles/installation-guide-for-intel-oneapi-toolkits.html
.. _GPU driver installation guide : https://dgpu-docs.intel.com/installation-guides/index.html
